* Author: Jonathan Gossage
* Date: Aug. 9th, 2019
* Posted on: [core-mentorship mailing list](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/core-mentorship@python.org/message/JHYNQHT6CVF5HDHILLAAJ2M4CFIFNNA6/)

---

This post is in response to the request for initial contributor
experiences and is intended to try and help with your analyses. It can
be used in any way you want, with or without attribution.  
  
# Specific Problems

When I first started to think about the possibility of trying to become
a contributor, I decided to try and work on outstanding issues as a way
of gaining experience with the Python codebase and with your methods of
development and maintenance. I started with the oldest issue that I
could find and then intended to work my way forward in time. My
viewpoint was that this would expose me to a large part of the Python
codebase and would resurrect long unused skills such as C.  
Basically what I found that I did not have the temperament to be a good
Python maintainer. Below are some of the community characteristics that
led me to this conclusion:  
  
Tolerance for long delays in communication. I recognize that the fact
that Python is an open-source project and thus most of the contributors
are part-timers contributes to this community attribute, however, I have
a relatively low tolerance for delays and I found that spending 6 months
or more on a single PR was a bit too much for me.  
I am not good at multi-tasking and the long delays in working with
single PR's meant that I needed to work on several things at the same
time. I found that the constant necessity to switch between tasks was
difficult and unproductive.

I found myself in disagreement with the community over the best strategy
for maintenance for old code. For example, if a module pre-dated Pep8,
the community consensus was that the style of the module in question
took priority over having a consistent code style for the entire code
base. This meant I had to be constantly switching mentally between
different coding styles, which was difficult for me.

Another example was; the community was reluctant to permit the clean-up
of non-code based things such as spelling or grammatical errors in
comments that, in parts of the module wereÂ not directly related to the
issue being addressed by a specific issue. My programming philosophy is
to keep the contents of any module in as good shape as possible even
when these concerns are not part of the issue that raised the PR. I
recognize that there two incompatible philosophies here and that the
practice of the community should govern. My problem was that, again, I
had to change to a manner of thinking that was completely different from
my normal programming practice.

I found a large part of the support code for PR's to be difficult to use
correctly, leading to me making many mistakes which probably increased
the time to handle a PR. Some of these mistakes may have been
frustrating to other community members who were trying to interact with
me.

The total impact of these issues, along with others, led me to decide
that my style of programming was incompatible with the Python community
and that it would be better for me that I should not try to change
myself and hence that it was not a good idea for me to try and become a
Python contributor.
