* Author: Lee Congdon
* Date: Aug. 2nd, 2019
* Posted on: [core-mentorship mailing list](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/core-mentorship@python.org/message/HVHNOZCNGI4LN7TJL66HWVP7Z5A4JDT7/)

---

tl;dr: I’d like to contribute to Python but the time commitment to get
started appears high and the certainty of finding a place to quickly
contribute value appears low  
  
First, a little background. I started my career as an operating system
developer and later worked for an open source company for nine years.
I’ve been a manager and an executive managing information technology
teams for most of my career. Programming languages and tools seem easy
to me and I find many of the skills I used early in my career are still
relevant.  
  
About a year ago, I began a search for open source projects that would
enable me to work on technical problems and contribute to a community. I
had successfully audited Python courses and the reputation of the
language and growing interest in Python appealed to me. I worked through
the online tutorial and reviewed the online documentation. I joined
several mailing lists. I perused Stack Overflow. I ultimately downloaded
CPython from github, built it, and used debugging tools to step though
the interpreter as it processed a simple program.  
  
I was intrigued enough to attend PyCon in Cleveland as an enthusiast
this year. The presentations were interesting and the participants were
great. Both reinforced my intent. In particular, the Adafruit Circuit
Playground Express provided to the attendees led me to Circuit Python
and a series of online tutorials encompassing both hardware and software
skills.  
  
However, I am somewhat stalled in my goal of contributing to Python. I’m
still interested and have the objective to become a contributor, but I
am faced with the question of where to start. (I acknowledge that some
friction is a result of my limited time to contribute.)  
  
I’ve considered starting with documentation update tasks but have the
feeling I could contribute more elsewhere.  
  
I’ve considered contributing to a library or a smaller related project
to build my skills and reputation.  
  
I’ve considered volunteering to help with builds but I am concerned that
my time to contribute might be limited during the peaks of release
cycles.  
  
I believe I could contribute to the CPython implementation but also
believe the startup time might be considerable. My assumption is that I
would need to improve my command of the language, work through the bug
reports and find something that I felt was within my capability, build
and test a patch, and then work to gain support from a (busy) core
developer who would have to take a chance on my pull request.  
  
I will probably follow the latter path when my schedule allows. I think
the path is clear enough that I can work my way through it, but I wonder
whether my enthusiasm may wane after two or three attempts at bug fixes
that remain pending.
