* Author: Sanyam Khurana
* Date: Aug. 10th, 2019
* Posted on: [core-mentorship mailing list](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/core-mentorship@python.org/message/SP34UTR4V7X57FUMBXXLKSVPA6MDU7PW/)

---

I started contributing to CPython back in Feb 2017. This was the very
time when CPython source code was migrated to Github and PyCon Pune took
place for the first time.

The story about starting contribution during the conference is documented
[on my blog](https://www.sanyamkhurana.com/blog/pycon-pune-2017.html).
In order to quickly just see about contributions, check below "Day 3"
heading in the blog post.

The sprints of PyCon Pune were the turning point in my life. Before that
I didn't even hear about CPython and what it is -- but till the sprints,
I knew this is something I would try to contribute to as that is how I
started earning my bread and butter professionally -- developing in
Python for the web.

Nick Coghlan came to India for PyCon Pune and helped a lot of folks
during sprints with setting up the dev environment and filtering down
bugs. Having someone who is already experienced with the workflow helped
everyone in kickstarting their contributions. Initially, there was a lot
of traction using the bug tracker -- especially for first-timers in OSS
as there were many fields in the search page and the bugs description
page which were gibberish to them. I already had some experience with
contributing to Mozilla's Gecko engine and marionette, so while I didn't
find it hard to know how to accomplish a search or understand the
meaning of fields, I still couldn't understand a few terms -- for
example -- what a "nosy list" means. That was a term I heard for the
first time and haven't seen that in other bug trackers. Nick helped me &
others in understanding that and a better way to navigate through the
bug tracker as well as to search for the bugs.

I was very afraid (impostor syndrome) initially and just wanted to at
the least understand the workflow for contributing to CPython during 2
days of the sprint. Landing a patch was very far from what I'd imagine
in my wildest dreams. I barely slept and worked extra hard in the night
to read the dev guide and set-up the dev environment which helped me to
quickly start scrutinizing something to work on during the first day of
the sprints.

I opened up 5 pull requests and reported one bug in the tracker while
writing a patch for a bug associated with running help method during the
2 days of sprinting.

After the sprints, I continued working on new issues and also addressing
reviews that I got on earlier pull requests. In late 2017, I was given
bug triaging access on the tracker by Victor Stinner.

I later helped some people in understanding the process to contribute
during bi-monthly Python meetups in Delhi, India and few of them did
create a pull request in CPython. The only difficulty I believe is the
lack of reviews on the pull requests. Initially, the person has studied
parts of code that were essential to fix a bug, but till the time a
review comes in, they might have to re-read what they wrote and what is
already there in order to make changes. While it doesn't happen always,
but it is quite common (at least for me and few people I helped to
contribute).

Also as Raymond already mentioned previously, the cost of getting decent
hardware is also important. I believe when one is professionally working
in an organization, the values, and culture (their permissiveness to
contribute to any open-source software) also plays a huge role.
