* Author: Sushma
* Date: Aug. 9th, 2019
* Posted on: [core-mentorship mailing list](https://mail.python.org/archives/list/core-mentorship@python.org/message/MYVKFPIHOHV6MJQAMGYYZGOB27KAZKBU/)

---

My initial stab at poking around CPython first issues a few years ago
just left me confused and since then I have had a chance to revisit that
since I was lucky enough to have a mentor who sat down with me in person
and ***very*** patiently explained to me how to go about it. 

It took me a little while to get a git workflow setup since I felt like
initially I was just lost in that, despite having used git. Once I felt
a little less wobbly in gitland, I started poking around everything on
the cpython website, checked out some of the channels and tried to find
the ones where I could just ask questions. I went to \#python-dev on
IRC, but found zulip + pyladies more helpful, till I saw the core
mentorship group.

As far as using the bug tracker, my strategy was to go find an issue
with a patch, but no PR (I learnt later that no PR was indicated by the
lack of the github logo in PyLadies) and apply the patch and run the
tests needed. The “search” box on the top right was  not as useful as
the search under issues on the left hand side. I also didn’t have much
clarity if it was ok to take a valid patch and apply that even if it was
a few years old, but it looks like it’s ok to do that. On the Issues
page, status = open made me think that I could find an issue to work on
right away, but after clicking on an issue, I’d find out there is
already someone working on it and it wasn’t  really open for other
people to work on, the open just seemed to indicate it wasn’t merged.
I’m still in the process of getting a handle on how to search the
issues page better. As far as submitting a PR and running the tests,
that felt more straight forward, also probably in part since I only did
one PR where I applied the patch and fixed some documentation. 

I realized I was very hesitant to say much initially, but I just needed
to get out of my own way and ask for help/not overthink too much, even
on the what I presumed to be the basic things. I hope to find more
issues where I can apply a patch, add some tests, write some code as I
go on\!
